PURL-TYPES.rst, before:

Package URL Type definitions
============================

Each package manager, platform, type, or ecosystem has its own conventions and
protocols to identify, locate, and provision software packages.

The package **type** is the component of a package URL that is used to capture
this information with a short string such as ``maven``, ``npm``, ``nuget``, ``gem``,
``pypi``, etc.


These are known ``purl`` package type definitions.

Known ``purl`` type definitions are formalized here independent of the core
Package URL specification. See also a candidate list further down.

Definitions can also include types reserved for future use.

See also https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec and
<PURL-SPECIFICATION.rst>`_ for the Package URL specification.


Known ``purl`` types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

bitbucket
---------
``bitbucket`` for Bitbucket-based packages:

- The default repository is ``https://bitbucket.org``
- The ``namespace`` is the user or organization. It is not case sensitive and
  must be lowercased.
- The ``name`` is the repository name. It is not case sensitive and must be
  lowercased.
- The ``version`` is a commit or tag
- Examples::

      pkg:bitbucket/birkenfeld/pygments-main@244fd47e07d1014f0aed9c

cargo
-----
``cargo`` for Rust:

- The default repository is ``https://crates.io/``
- The ``name`` is the repository name.
- The ``version`` is the package version.
- Examples::

      pkg:cargo/rand@0.7.2
      pkg:cargo/clap@2.33.0
      pkg:cargo/structopt@0.3.11

composer
--------
``composer`` for Composer PHP packages:

- The default repository is ``https://packagist.org``
- The ``namespace`` is the vendor.
- Note: private, local packages may have no name. In this case you cannot
  create a ``purl`` for these.
- Examples::

      pkg:composer/laravel/laravel@5.5.0

deb
---
``deb`` for Debian, Debian derivatives, and Ubuntu packages:

- There is no default package repository: this should be implied either from
  the ``distro`` qualifiers key or using a base url as a ``repository_url``
  qualifiers key
- The ``namespace`` is the "vendor" name such as "debian" or "ubuntu".
  It is not case sensitive and must be lowercased.
- The ``name`` is not case sensitive and must be lowercased.
- The ``version`` is the package version.
- ``arch`` is the qualifiers key for a package architecture
- Examples::

      pkg:deb/debian/curl@7.50.3-1?arch=i386&distro=jessie
      pkg:deb/debian/dpkg@1.19.0.4?arch=amd64&distro=stretch
      pkg:deb/ubuntu/dpkg@1.19.0.4?arch=amd64

docker
------
``docker`` for Docker images

- The default repository is ``https://hub.docker.com``
- The ``namespace`` is the registry/user/organization if present
- The version should be the image id sha256 or a tag. Since tags can be moved,
  a sha256 image id is preferred.
- Examples::

      pkg:docker/cassandra@latest
      pkg:docker/smartentry/debian@dc437cc87d10
      pkg:docker/customer/dockerimage@sha256%3A244fd47e07d10?repository_url=gcr.io

gem
---
``gem`` for Rubygems:

- The default repository is ``https://rubygems.org``
- The ``platform`` qualifiers key is used to specify an alternative platform
  such as ``java`` for JRuby. The implied default is ``ruby`` for Ruby MRI.
- Examples::

      pkg:gem/ruby-advisory-db-check@0.12.4
      pkg:gem/jruby-launcher@1.1.2?platform=java

generic
-------
``generic`` for plain, generic packages that do not fit anywhere else such as
for "upstream-from-distro" packages. In particular this is handy for a plain
version control repository such as a bare git repo.

- There is no default repository. A ``download_url`` and ``checksum`` may be
  provided in `qualifiers` or as separate attributes outside of a ``purl`` for
  proper identification and location.
- When possible another or a new purl ``type`` should be used instead of using
  the ``generic`` type and eventually contributed back to this specification
- as for other ``type``, the ``name`` component is mandatory. In the worst case
  it can be a file or directory name.
- Examples (truncated for brevity)::

     pkg:generic/openssl@1.1.10g
     pkg:generic/openssl@1.1.10g?download_url=https://openssl.org/source/openssl-1.1.0g.tar.gz&checksum=sha256:de4d501267da
     pkg:generic/bitwarderl?vcs_url=https://git.fsfe.org/dxtr/bitwarderl@cc55108da32


github
------
``github`` for Github-based packages:

- The default repository is ``https://github.com``
- The ``namespace`` is the user or organization. It is not case sensitive and
  must be lowercased.
- The ``name`` is the repository name. It is not case sensitive and must be
  lowercased.
- The ``version`` is a commit or tag
- Examples::

      pkg:github/package-url/purl-spec@244fd47e07d1004
      pkg:github/package-url/purl-spec@244fd47e07d1004#everybody/loves/dogs

golang
------
``golang`` for Go packages

- There is no default package repository: this is implied in the namespace
  using the ``go get`` command conventions
- The ``namespace`` and `name` must be lowercased.
- The ``subpath`` is used to point to a subpath inside a package
- The ``version`` is often empty when a commit is not specified and should be
  the commit in most cases when available.
- Examples::

      pkg:golang/github.com/gorilla/context@234fd47e07d1004f0aed9c
      pkg:golang/google.golang.org/genproto#googleapis/api/annotations
      pkg:golang/github.com/gorilla/context@234fd47e07d1004f0aed9c#api


hex
---
``hex`` for Hex packages

- The default repository is ``https://repo.hex.pm``.
- The ``namespace`` is optional; it may be used to specify the organization for
  private packages on hex.pm. It is not case sensitive and must be lowercased.
- The ``name`` is not case sensitive and must be lowercased.
- Examples::

      pkg:hex/jason@1.1.2
      pkg:hex/acme/foo@2.3.
      pkg:hex/phoenix_html@2.13.3#priv/static/phoenix_html.js
      pkg:hex/bar@1.2.3?repository_url=https://myrepo.example.com


maven
-----
``maven`` for Maven JARs and related artifacts

- The default repository is ``https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2``
- The group id is the ``namespace`` and the artifact id is the ``name``
- Known qualifiers keys are: ``classifier`` and ``type`` as defined in the
  POM documentation. Note that Maven uses a concept / coordinate called packaging
  which does not map directly 1:1 to a file extension. In this use case, we need
  to construct a link to one of many possible artifacts. Maven itself uses type
  in a dependency declaration when needed to disambiguate between them.
- Examples::

      pkg:maven/org.apache.xmlgraphics/batik-anim@1.9.1
      pkg:maven/org.apache.xmlgraphics/batik-anim@1.9.1?type=pom
      pkg:maven/org.apache.xmlgraphics/batik-anim@1.9.1?classifier=sources
      pkg:maven/org.apache.xmlgraphics/batik-anim@1.9.1?type=zip&classifier=dist
      pkg:maven/net.sf.jacob-projec/jacob@1.14.3?classifier=x86&type=dll
      pkg:maven/net.sf.jacob-projec/jacob@1.14.3?classifier=x64&type=dll


npm
---
``npm`` for Node NPM packages:

- The default repository is ``https://registry.npmjs.org``
- The ``namespace`` is used for the scope of a scoped NPM package.
- Per the package.json spec, new package "must not have uppercase letters in
  the name", therefore the must be lowercased.
- Examples::

      pkg:npm/foobar@12.3.1
      pkg:npm/%40angular/animation@12.3.1
      pkg:npm/mypackage@12.4.5?vcs_url=git://host.com/path/to/repo.git@4345abcd34343

nuget
-----
``nuget`` for NuGet .NET packages:

- The default repository is ``https://www.nuget.org``
- There is no ``namespace`` per se even if the common convention is to use
  dot-separated package names where the first segment is ``namespace``-like.
  TBD: should we split the first segment as a namespace?
- Examples::

      pkg:nuget/EnterpriseLibrary.Common@6.0.1304

pypi
----
``pypi`` for Python packages:

- The default repository is ``https://pypi.python.org``
- PyPi treats ``-`` and ``_`` as the same character and is not case sensitive.
  Therefore a Pypi package ``name`` must be lowercased and underscore ``_``
  replaced with a dash ``-``
- Examples::

      pkg:pypi/django@1.11.1
      pkg:pypi/django-allauth@12.23

rpm
---
``rpm`` for RPMs:

- There is no default package repository: this should be implied either from
  the ``distro`` qualifiers key  or using a repository base url as 
  ``repository_url`` qualifiers key
- the ``namespace`` is the vendor such as fedora or opensus
  It is not case sensitive and must be lowercased.
- the ``name`` is the RPM name and is case sensitive.
- the ``version`` is the combined version and release of an
  RPM
- ``epoch`` (optional for RPMs) is a qualifier as it's not required for
  unique identification, but when the epoch exists we strongly
  encourage using it
- ``arch`` is the qualifiers key for a package architecture
- Examples::

      pkg:rpm/fedora/curl@7.50.3-1.fc25?arch=i386&distro=fedora-25
      pkg:rpm/centerim@4.22.10-1.el6?arch=i686&epoch=1&distro=fedora-25


Other candidate types to define:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``alpine`` for Alpine Linux apk packages:
- ``apache`` for Apache projects packages:
- ``android`` for Android apk packages:
- ``arch`` for Arch Linux packages:
- ``atom`` for Atom packages:
- ``bower`` for Bower JavaScript packages:
- ``brew`` for Homebrew packages:
- ``buildroot`` for Buildroot packages
- ``carthage`` for Cocoapods Cocoa packages:
- ``chef`` for Chef packages:
- ``chocolatey`` for Chocolatey packages
- ``clojars`` for Clojure packages:
- ``cocoapods`` for Cocoapods iOS packages:
- ``conan`` for Conan C/C++ packages:
- ``coreos`` for CoreOS packages:
- ``cpan`` for CPAN Perl packages:
- ``cran`` for CRAN R packages:
- ``ctan`` for CTAN TeX packages:
- ``crystal`` for Crystal Shards packages:
- ``drupal`` for Drupal packages:
- ``dtype`` for DefinitelyTyped TypeScript type definitions:
- ``dub`` for D packages:
- ``elm`` for Elm packages:
- ``eclipse`` for Eclipse projects packages:
- ``gitea`` for Gitea-based packages:
- ``gitlab`` for Gitlab-based packages:
- ``gradle`` for Gradle plugins
- ``guix`` for Guix packages:
- ``hackage`` for Haskell packages:
- ``haxe`` for Haxe packages:
- ``helm`` for Kubernetes packages
- ``julia`` for Julia packages:
- ``lua`` for LuaRocks packages:
- ``melpa`` for Emacs packages
- ``meteor`` for Meteor JavaScript packages:
- ``nim`` for Nim packages:
- ``nix`` for Nixos packages:
- ``opam`` for OCaml packages:
- ``openwrt`` for OpenWRT packages:
- ``osgi`` for OSGi bundle packages:
- ``p2`` for Eclipse p2 packages:
- ``pear`` for Pear PHP packages:
- ``pecl`` for PECL PHP packages:
- ``perl6`` for Perl 6 module packages:
- ``platformio`` for PlatformIO packages:
- ``ebuild`` for Gentoo Linux portage packages:
- ``pub`` for Dart packages:
- ``puppet`` for Puppet Forge packages:
- ``sourceforge`` for Sourceforge-based packages:
- ``sublime`` for Sublime packages:
- ``swift`` for Swift packages:
- ``terraform`` for Terraform modules
- ``vagrant`` for Vagrant boxes
- ``vim`` for Vim scripts packages:
- ``wordpress`` for Wordpress packages:
- ``yocto`` for Yocto recipe packages:


License
~~~~~~~

This document is licensed under the MIT license

Commit message:

Proposal to add `oci-artifact` as pURL type
The current pURL specification has a proposed `Docker` entry that can be
used when referencing docker container images. However, Docker Hub is
not the only registry where container images might be stored.
Additionally, a container image is not the only type of artifact that
may be stored in an oci registry.

The SPDX community is designing a means to uniquely identify artifacts
that an SBoM is associated within. In SPDX 3.0 specifically, this will
be the `Artifact URL` property which refers to a unique artifact. In
order to represent all cloud native artifacts, there needs to be an
entry in the pURL spec that can represent more than just docker
container images. Adding the `oci-artifact` entry would specifically
enable:

- a means to uniquely identify any artifact, regardless of what registry
it may currently be in. (Use cases: importing an artifact from a public
registry to a private registry, and promotion within and across private
registries)
- reference to the same global identifier when describing
identical oci artifacts in different SBoMs (Use cases: two different
companies describing the same oci artifact using the same global
identifier in two different SPDX documents)

Signed-off-by: Rose Judge <rjudge@vmware.com>

PURL-TYPES.rst, after:

Package URL Type definitions
============================

Each package manager, platform, type, or ecosystem has its own conventions and
protocols to identify, locate, and provision software packages.

The package **type** is the component of a package URL that is used to capture
this information with a short string such as ``maven``, ``npm``, ``nuget``, ``gem``,
``pypi``, etc.


These are known ``purl`` package type definitions.

Known ``purl`` type definitions are formalized here independent of the core
Package URL specification. See also a candidate list further down.

Definitions can also include types reserved for future use.

See also https://github.com/package-url/purl-spec and
<PURL-SPECIFICATION.rst>`_ for the Package URL specification.


Known ``purl`` types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

bitbucket
---------
``bitbucket`` for Bitbucket-based packages:

- The default repository is ``https://bitbucket.org``
- The ``namespace`` is the user or organization. It is not case sensitive and
  must be lowercased.
- The ``name`` is the repository name. It is not case sensitive and must be
  lowercased.
- The ``version`` is a commit or tag
- Examples::

      pkg:bitbucket/birkenfeld/pygments-main@244fd47e07d1014f0aed9c

cargo
-----
``cargo`` for Rust:

- The default repository is ``https://crates.io/``
- The ``name`` is the repository name.
- The ``version`` is the package version.
- Examples::

      pkg:cargo/rand@0.7.2
      pkg:cargo/clap@2.33.0
      pkg:cargo/structopt@0.3.11

composer
--------
``composer`` for Composer PHP packages:

- The default repository is ``https://packagist.org``
- The ``namespace`` is the vendor.
- Note: private, local packages may have no name. In this case you cannot
  create a ``purl`` for these.
- Examples::

      pkg:composer/laravel/laravel@5.5.0

deb
---
``deb`` for Debian, Debian derivatives, and Ubuntu packages:

- There is no default package repository: this should be implied either from
  the ``distro`` qualifiers key or using a base url as a ``repository_url``
  qualifiers key
- The ``namespace`` is the "vendor" name such as "debian" or "ubuntu".
  It is not case sensitive and must be lowercased.
- The ``name`` is not case sensitive and must be lowercased.
- The ``version`` is the package version.
- ``arch`` is the qualifiers key for a package architecture
- Examples::

      pkg:deb/debian/curl@7.50.3-1?arch=i386&distro=jessie
      pkg:deb/debian/dpkg@1.19.0.4?arch=amd64&distro=stretch
      pkg:deb/ubuntu/dpkg@1.19.0.4?arch=amd64

docker
------
``docker`` for Docker images

- The default repository is ``https://hub.docker.com``
- The ``namespace`` is the registry/user/organization if present
- The version should be the image id sha256 or a tag. Since tags can be moved,
  a sha256 image id is preferred.
- Examples::

      pkg:docker/cassandra@latest
      pkg:docker/smartentry/debian@dc437cc87d10
      pkg:docker/customer/dockerimage@sha256%3A244fd47e07d10?repository_url=gcr.io

gem
---
``gem`` for Rubygems:

- The default repository is ``https://rubygems.org``
- The ``platform`` qualifiers key is used to specify an alternative platform
  such as ``java`` for JRuby. The implied default is ``ruby`` for Ruby MRI.
- Examples::

      pkg:gem/ruby-advisory-db-check@0.12.4
      pkg:gem/jruby-launcher@1.1.2?platform=java

generic
-------
``generic`` for plain, generic packages that do not fit anywhere else such as
for "upstream-from-distro" packages. In particular this is handy for a plain
version control repository such as a bare git repo.

- There is no default repository. A ``download_url`` and ``checksum`` may be
  provided in `qualifiers` or as separate attributes outside of a ``purl`` for
  proper identification and location.
- When possible another or a new purl ``type`` should be used instead of using
  the ``generic`` type and eventually contributed back to this specification
- as for other ``type``, the ``name`` component is mandatory. In the worst case
  it can be a file or directory name.
- Examples (truncated for brevity)::

     pkg:generic/openssl@1.1.10g
     pkg:generic/openssl@1.1.10g?download_url=https://openssl.org/source/openssl-1.1.0g.tar.gz&checksum=sha256:de4d501267da
     pkg:generic/bitwarderl?vcs_url=https://git.fsfe.org/dxtr/bitwarderl@cc55108da32


github
------
``github`` for Github-based packages:

- The default repository is ``https://github.com``
- The ``namespace`` is the user or organization. It is not case sensitive and
  must be lowercased.
- The ``name`` is the repository name. It is not case sensitive and must be
  lowercased.
- The ``version`` is a commit or tag
- Examples::

      pkg:github/package-url/purl-spec@244fd47e07d1004
      pkg:github/package-url/purl-spec@244fd47e07d1004#everybody/loves/dogs

golang
------
``golang`` for Go packages

- There is no default package repository: this is implied in the namespace
  using the ``go get`` command conventions
- The ``namespace`` and `name` must be lowercased.
- The ``subpath`` is used to point to a subpath inside a package
- The ``version`` is often empty when a commit is not specified and should be
  the commit in most cases when available.
- Examples::

      pkg:golang/github.com/gorilla/context@234fd47e07d1004f0aed9c
      pkg:golang/google.golang.org/genproto#googleapis/api/annotations
      pkg:golang/github.com/gorilla/context@234fd47e07d1004f0aed9c#api


hex
---
``hex`` for Hex packages

- The default repository is ``https://repo.hex.pm``.
- The ``namespace`` is optional; it may be used to specify the organization for
  private packages on hex.pm. It is not case sensitive and must be lowercased.
- The ``name`` is not case sensitive and must be lowercased.
- Examples::

      pkg:hex/jason@1.1.2
      pkg:hex/acme/foo@2.3.
      pkg:hex/phoenix_html@2.13.3#priv/static/phoenix_html.js
      pkg:hex/bar@1.2.3?repository_url=https://myrepo.example.com


maven
-----
``maven`` for Maven JARs and related artifacts

- The default repository is ``https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2``
- The group id is the ``namespace`` and the artifact id is the ``name``
- Known qualifiers keys are: ``classifier`` and ``type`` as defined in the
  POM documentation. Note that Maven uses a concept / coordinate called packaging
  which does not map directly 1:1 to a file extension. In this use case, we need
  to construct a link to one of many possible artifacts. Maven itself uses type
  in a dependency declaration when needed to disambiguate between them.
- Examples::

      pkg:maven/org.apache.xmlgraphics/batik-anim@1.9.1
      pkg:maven/org.apache.xmlgraphics/batik-anim@1.9.1?type=pom
      pkg:maven/org.apache.xmlgraphics/batik-anim@1.9.1?classifier=sources
      pkg:maven/org.apache.xmlgraphics/batik-anim@1.9.1?type=zip&classifier=dist
      pkg:maven/net.sf.jacob-projec/jacob@1.14.3?classifier=x86&type=dll
      pkg:maven/net.sf.jacob-projec/jacob@1.14.3?classifier=x64&type=dll


npm
---
``npm`` for Node NPM packages:

- The default repository is ``https://registry.npmjs.org``
- The ``namespace`` is used for the scope of a scoped NPM package.
- Per the package.json spec, new package "must not have uppercase letters in
  the name", therefore the must be lowercased.
- Examples::

      pkg:npm/foobar@12.3.1
      pkg:npm/%40angular/animation@12.3.1
      pkg:npm/mypackage@12.4.5?vcs_url=git://host.com/path/to/repo.git@4345abcd34343

nuget
-----
``nuget`` for NuGet .NET packages:

- The default repository is ``https://www.nuget.org``
- There is no ``namespace`` per se even if the common convention is to use
  dot-separated package names where the first segment is ``namespace``-like.
  TBD: should we split the first segment as a namespace?
- Examples::

      pkg:nuget/EnterpriseLibrary.Common@6.0.1304

oci-artifact
------------
``oci-artifact`` for all artifacts stored in OCI Distribution-spec conformant
registries:

- There is no canonical package repository for OCI artifacts. Therefore
  ``oci-artifact`` pURLs must be registry agnostic.
- OCI pURLs do not require a ``namespace``. The ``namespace`` is specific
  to the physical location of the package.
- The ``name`` is not case sensitive and must be lowercased. The name is the
  last fragment of the repository name. For example if the repository
  name is ``library/debian`` then the ``name`` is ``debian``.
- The ``version`` is the ``@sha256:digest`` of the artifact and is strongly
  suggested for oci artifacts.
- Optional qualifiers may include:

  - ``arch``: key for a package architecture, when relevant
  - ``repository``: A repository URL where the artifact may be found, but not intended as the only location
  - ``tag``: artifact tag that may have been associated with the digest at the time
  - ``type``: type of artifact stored in an OCI registry
- ``subpath`` is not relevant to ``oci-artifact``
- Examples::

      pkg:oci-artifact/debian@256:<shasum>?repository=docker.io/library/debian&arch=amd64&type=image
      pkg:oci-artifact/oci.image/debian@sha256:<shasum>?tag=bullseye&type=image
      pkg:oci-artifact/cncf.helm/metallb@sha256:<shasum>?repository=registry.io/bitnami&type=cncf.helm
      pkg:/oci-artifact/cncf.wasm/hello-wasm@256:<shasum>?type=wasm&tag=v1

pypi
----
``pypi`` for Python packages:

- The default repository is ``https://pypi.python.org``
- PyPi treats ``-`` and ``_`` as the same character and is not case sensitive.
  Therefore a Pypi package ``name`` must be lowercased and underscore ``_``
  replaced with a dash ``-``
- Examples::

      pkg:pypi/django@1.11.1
      pkg:pypi/django-allauth@12.23

rpm
---
``rpm`` for RPMs:

- There is no default package repository: this should be implied either from
  the ``distro`` qualifiers key  or using a repository base url as 
  ``repository_url`` qualifiers key
- the ``namespace`` is the vendor such as fedora or opensus
  It is not case sensitive and must be lowercased.
- the ``name`` is the RPM name and is case sensitive.
- the ``version`` is the combined version and release of an
  RPM
- ``epoch`` (optional for RPMs) is a qualifier as it's not required for
  unique identification, but when the epoch exists we strongly
  encourage using it
- ``arch`` is the qualifiers key for a package architecture
- Examples::

      pkg:rpm/fedora/curl@7.50.3-1.fc25?arch=i386&distro=fedora-25
      pkg:rpm/centerim@4.22.10-1.el6?arch=i686&epoch=1&distro=fedora-25


Other candidate types to define:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- ``alpine`` for Alpine Linux apk packages:
- ``apache`` for Apache projects packages:
- ``android`` for Android apk packages:
- ``arch`` for Arch Linux packages:
- ``atom`` for Atom packages:
- ``bower`` for Bower JavaScript packages:
- ``brew`` for Homebrew packages:
- ``buildroot`` for Buildroot packages
- ``carthage`` for Cocoapods Cocoa packages:
- ``chef`` for Chef packages:
- ``chocolatey`` for Chocolatey packages
- ``clojars`` for Clojure packages:
- ``cocoapods`` for Cocoapods iOS packages:
- ``conan`` for Conan C/C++ packages:
- ``coreos`` for CoreOS packages:
- ``cpan`` for CPAN Perl packages:
- ``cran`` for CRAN R packages:
- ``ctan`` for CTAN TeX packages:
- ``crystal`` for Crystal Shards packages:
- ``drupal`` for Drupal packages:
- ``dtype`` for DefinitelyTyped TypeScript type definitions:
- ``dub`` for D packages:
- ``elm`` for Elm packages:
- ``eclipse`` for Eclipse projects packages:
- ``gitea`` for Gitea-based packages:
- ``gitlab`` for Gitlab-based packages:
- ``gradle`` for Gradle plugins
- ``guix`` for Guix packages:
- ``hackage`` for Haskell packages:
- ``haxe`` for Haxe packages:
- ``helm`` for Kubernetes packages
- ``julia`` for Julia packages:
- ``lua`` for LuaRocks packages:
- ``melpa`` for Emacs packages
- ``meteor`` for Meteor JavaScript packages:
- ``nim`` for Nim packages:
- ``nix`` for Nixos packages:
- ``opam`` for OCaml packages:
- ``openwrt`` for OpenWRT packages:
- ``osgi`` for OSGi bundle packages:
- ``p2`` for Eclipse p2 packages:
- ``pear`` for Pear PHP packages:
- ``pecl`` for PECL PHP packages:
- ``perl6`` for Perl 6 module packages:
- ``platformio`` for PlatformIO packages:
- ``ebuild`` for Gentoo Linux portage packages:
- ``pub`` for Dart packages:
- ``puppet`` for Puppet Forge packages:
- ``sourceforge`` for Sourceforge-based packages:
- ``sublime`` for Sublime packages:
- ``swift`` for Swift packages:
- ``terraform`` for Terraform modules
- ``vagrant`` for Vagrant boxes
- ``vim`` for Vim scripts packages:
- ``wordpress`` for Wordpress packages:
- ``yocto`` for Yocto recipe packages:


License
~~~~~~~

This document is licensed under the MIT license
